---
title: SimpleReport Getting Started Video Transcript
description: Audio and visual descriptions for the video offering an overview of SimpleReport  
permalink: /getting-started-video-transcript/
layout: post
home_link: false
---

**Source:** ["SimpleReport Getting Started - Training Overview"](www.youtube.com/watch?v=qVkeizogmeQ)

0:00 → 0:30
(The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) logo next to the U.S. Digital Service logo, followed by large text reading “SimpleReport Training Overview.”)
 
Welcome to our SimpleReport training. We'll start with an overview and then that will be followed by a series of videos that go into a little bit more detail about each of the steps that you'll need in order to successfully use SimpleReport. 

Each of these videos is only a few minutes long, and you're able to go through them at your own pace. These videos will also be available for you to review after you've completed the training. That way if you need a refresher, they will always be available.

0:33 → 0:50
(A list of what this training will cover, including “Getting Started,” “Conduct Test,” and “Results,” alongside a SimpleReport screen that shows a COVID-19 test card for Sofia Petrillo.)

This training is going to cover a few different topics. We'll talk about how you get started, looking at both adding in patients and editing your settings, we'll discuss how you actually conduct a test, and we will also discuss how you can submit results, review results, etc.
 
0:53 → 1:11
(SimpleReport screen showing top navigation with “Conduct tests” highlighted in dark blue, a search box saying “Search for a person to start their test,” and a message in a white box that says “There are no tests running, search for a person to start their test.”)

Let's jump in with a quick overview. I'm going to quickly run through the various parts of the SimpleReport website. I'm not going to go into a lot of detail in this particular session as we will go more in depth in subsequent sessions.

1:12 → 1:20
(The same SimpleReport screen. An arrow cursor circles the screen then points to the “Conduct tests” menu item.)

So to start with, this is our landing page. Whenever you sign into SimpleReport this is what you will see. You'll land on the Conduct tests tab.

1:21 → 1:31
(The same SimpleReport screen. An arrow cursor points to the empty gray space beneath the white box saying that there are no tests running.)

You can see here that there are no tests running at the moment. If you log in and your facility already has tests in progress or people in the queue, then you will see those folks already listed here.

1:32 → 1:38
(The same SimpleReport screen. The arrow cursor clicks into the search box with the text saying, “Search for a person to start their test.”)

This is the page where we conduct all tests, and this is where you will go to enter someone's name to begin that test.

1:39 → 1:57
(The arrow cursor clicks “Results” in the top navigation. The screen switches to a page with a box that says, “Test Results (past two days)” with an empty table and a button reading “See all results.” The cursor clicks on the button.)

One of the other primary tabs that you will tend to use is the Results tab. The default is that it will show you the test results from the last two days. If you have not tested over the last two days, then you will see no results, but you can always see all of the historical results for your facility by clicking on “see all results.”

1:58 → 2:05
(The screen scrolls on a table labeled “Test results (all),” which includes data in each of the columns, including Person Name, Date of Test, Results, Device, and Actions.)  

And when you do that, it will have a list of all of the past results that have occurred at your location.

2:06 → 2:27
(The cursor clicks “People” in the main navigation. The screen switches to a screen with a table labeled “People,” which has columns for Name, Date of Birth, and Days since last test.)

By navigating to the people tab, you'll be able to see a list of all the folks who you have registered for SimpleReport. If you need to edit someone's information, for example if their phone number or perhaps their address has changed, this is the page where you will go to do those things. 

2:28 → 2:32
(The same screen. The cursor hovers over a button in the top right corner that reads “+ Add person.”)

You'll also be able to add new people to the system from this tab.

2:35 → 2:44
(The cursor clicks on “Conduct Tests” in the main navigation and the screen returns to the page with the search box and box reading, “There are no tests running, search for a person to start their test.” The cursor points to the SimpleReport logo with “Las Palmas” written in small text below.)

A few other things I want to call out on the home page is that you will always be able to see your organization name in the top left hand corner.

2:45 → 2:52
(The same screen. The cursor points to a box with up and down arrows to the right, which contains the text “Shady Pines.”) 

You'll always be able to see the facility that you are testing at here to the right of the people tab.

2:53 → 3:20
(The same screen. The cursor points to two small icons, one a circle with a person in it, and the other a gear wheel. The cursor clicks the person icon and a box appears with the name “Bob Bobberoo,” a description of their role and facility, and a link to log out.) 

There's two other icons. Everyone should be able to see this little person icon. This represents the logged in user. So your name will be here, your role will be right here, and then finally it will let you know which facility you're testing at. Particularly if you are using a shared device, so for example if you're using a laptop that is then going to be given to someone else when your shift is over, please make sure that you log out.

3:21 → 3:42
(The same screen. The cursor points to the gear wheel icon.) 

Finally, you have this gear icon. This will only be visible to individuals who are admin users as this allows you to actually change the admin settings for your location. To dig in a little bit more and get some more information about SimpleReport and how you conduct tests, please see our other videos

3:43 → 4:12
(A slide with information about the SimpleReport User Guide, with an image of the guide on the right. The guide has the CDC and U.S. Digital Service logos at the top, with a clickable table of contents below.)

A companion piece to the training and a great resource once you begin testing is our SimpleReport user guide. This guide covers a variety of topics, like how to use SimpleReport to conduct tests and submit results to the public health department, as well as telling you how to reset your password or get support. Our user guide is available on our website in the resource section, and you can find this and other resources by going to
simplereport.gov/resources. 

4:13 → 4:35
(A slide titled “How to contact us,” with two bullets. A paragraph below says, “When reporting a problem, please make sure you tell us exactly what you were doing when things went wrong. If you can include a screenshot, that would be a bonus!)

We want to hear from you. If you have any questions, any feedback, or if you need to report a problem, please feel free to get in touch with us. There are two ways that you can do that: You can email us at support@simplereport.gov or you can reach out to us through the USDS- CDC Google Group. 

4:36 → 4:57
(A slide with large text reading, “Try it yourself: https://training.simplereport.gov.”)

Please feel free to try out SimpleReport for yourself at training.simplereport.gov. This
is a safe place to practice. All of the information here is scrubbed every so often, so this is a place where you can just play around and try out all the different features that we'll be covering in the following training videos. 

4:58 → 5:09
(Large text that says, “Let’s get started!”)

You can go through these videos at your own pace. These videos will always be available to go back and to practice or refresh if you need to. And let's get started!
